>> Erik: So let's talk about
the key challenges, right?
These are always fun because
these are what most people deal
with when talking about
doing architecture designs.
There's a lot of challenges with
building architecture designs.
And as you go higher up at a company or
you deal with more people,
basically, you have more challenges,
right?
If you're just building
a system by yourself, sure,
you might deal with things like
complexity, adaptability, security, and
technology, and
even potentially resources.
But I think the last one there,
which is also incredibly important,
especially if you work at a company,
is your stakeholders.
And we'll talk about each
one of these in more detail.
But again, the main challenges that we're
gonna go over are the complexity of
an architecture design, the adaptability
of it, the security around it, technology,
resources, and then,
as I mentioned, stakeholders.
>> Erik: First one, and this is probably
hands down the one that people deal
with the most, which is complexity.
I personally have struggled
with this a lot in the past
because I'm slightly autistic.
Building wireframes and charts for
me is very soothing, and so
I can spend four hours
building an architecture and
then go step back and go like,
my gosh, this is spaghetti.
You really want to think of the complexity
of the system while you're building it.
A lot of times, the higher, or
the more often you distribute,
the more often you spread out,
the more that complexity enhances, right?
So you wanna think about handling
the intricate details and
interdependencies in a system
before they become too plex and
basically completely,
what's the word I'm looking for,
uncharitable to other teams or
things like that, right?
If you have to sit in a meeting and
share something for like 20 minutes and
then nobody understands what you
just talked about, I'm sorry but
you actually failed not them
that they don't understand it.
I know that you might feel that way,
but no, it's that you actually
might have made too complex of a system
that was too hard to communicate.
Here's a good example of that.
This is actually one of
the first systems I ever built.
And this was probably when I first started
getting into architecture designs.
This is actually the V1 of
the content creator tools platform
that I'm building called Quirk.
I had originally built this as kind
of an explorative opportunity for me.
I was working on a project by myself,
I wanted to work with a lot of
new systems and try new things.
What I didn't realize was the complexities
that I had created had become so much
that I really needed a team of 10 people
to manage that system after I created it.
And to showcase that a little bit further,
the users are on the left,
so you have the main users
who access the system, and
then you have the developers who actually
need to access to build the system.
As we go from left to right, the users
will send requests to like an ingress,
so something like CloudFlare, right?
Then that will go to like a load balancer,
which I was really interested in getting
more comfortable with WAFs at the time and
figuring out how to work with CDNs and
things like that.
But I also really wanted
to work with Kubernetes,
which if anybody here has
ever used Kubernetes before,
you probably know that that's not a very
simple system, especially for one person.
But I was very adamant on using
Kubernetes because I wanted to try it.
But if anybody here has ever built a
system before, you can immediately look at
this and go like, this person kinda
didn't know what they were doing.
And so I wanted to figure
out distributed services.
And I went as far as even,
you'll notice in the middle there
with the little purple squares,
I went as far as to running my own
serverless framework called Knative.
Why did I do this?
I have no idea.
When I could have just used AWS Lambdas,
which already existed,
which already had robustness,
extensibility, all these things around it.
But, again, I wanted to be able to
learn how does serverless work?
How do you deal with it?
And again, I think a big takeaway here
is that the more complexity you add,
the more that you own, right?
If you are one person,
you probably cannot maintain something
like this at scale without never sleeping,
which I don't recommend, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Someone's online says
they only know one thing on that chart,
which is the API.
>> Erik: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: And things like load
balancers and etc are newer to them.
>> Erik: Yeah, I mean, in all honesty,
it was It was some of these things
were new to me as well [LAUGH].
And if a system becomes too
complex to where you show somebody
something like this, and
then they immediately go,
you might need to even figure out
better ways of showing that complexity.
There might be reason why you
have complexity, I'm not saying
Kubernetes is bad, I love Kubernetes I
use it at work, I actually just recently
designed our new infrastructure that will
be running entirely on Kubernetes, right?
But what I realized when I was going
through that process was domains, right,
figuring out how to separate these things.
So maybe we just show the backend for
a specific team and how that domain works,
right, or how we can separate routing
from inter-service communication and
things like that,
like external from internal.
Complexity sometimes is required and just
throwing it all in one huge chart like
this and kind of making like a where's
Waldo, doesn't really help and
that's probably the biggest thing I
want to be able to showcase, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: You talked about
a structured approach to complex problems.
And then you have
the content media platform.
Can you talk a little bit about
the questions that you would ask to
sort of arrive at this content
platform is where I wanna end up?
>> Erik: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What are some of those steps
that would lead whether it's this complex
or simpler?
>> Erik: Yeah, okay.
I think always having a North Star and
what problem you're trying to
solve is important, right?
I think one of the things that
is in the system that doesn't
really do a good job of showcasing
it is every one of those orange
things is basically a container
solving a specific problem.
You can see that the API in the top
left-hand corner is really focused on just
serving the frontend requests,
things like that, one problem solved.
I now have solved where my
frontend requests go, right?
However, maybe we also have WebSocket
requirements that we need, and
we don't want those to be coupled
with the API because they're
two different transports, right?
HTTP is normally what you use for an API,
which is just normal transactional
requests, but then say, okay,
I wanna interact with real-time.
Should you join those together?
Should you separate them?
That's kind of a North Star as well.
It's like,
do you wanna keep those together?
Do you want to scale your API and
your WebSockets together?
Do you wanna separate them?
And then as we kina move further in the
architecture, you'll see that there's like
a Twitch bot there, which allows me to
handle all of the Twitch connections and
all of the Twitch messages.
There's a Discord bot in there.
And that separation is, okay,
well, I know I could create a bot,
but do I want my Twitch logic and
my Discord logic together, right?
So those are kinda the questions
you wanna ask yourself is like,
what problem am I trying to solve?
And am I solving it too complex?
Is it too simple, right?
Going into the scaling and
robustness and things like that.
One of the things that I would say,
for example,
that was probably a bit overkill was,
in this example,
the Twitch bot really just fires a lambda
for every time a message is sent.
Scaling that is not a good thing [LAUGH],
right?
Especially if you are using something
like AWS lambda and you have millions of
requests coming in, it may just be better
to have it all in one bot, right, and
have that just be a process
that's running all the time.
So considering, again,
what problem you're trying to solve,
as well as how complex you wanna solve,
it should be able to help guide you
with those specific components
you're trying to make.
Does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 2: That's helpful.
>> Erik: Okay, cool, awesome.
Yeah, don't be afraid to
start simple as well.
I know there's a lot of egos
in our industry [LAUGH],
but the reality of it is, is,
if you're building the system for
the requirements that you need,
everyone else can shut up [LAUGH].
It's true, and I've been in many
conversations with that where somebody
will say, well, it's too simple.
And I'm like, well,
have you done this before?
And they're like, whoa.
And I'm like, okay, well,
then let's try this first, and
see the easier approach before
we make it overly complicated.
And that is even something that
I would lean on more than not.
The biggest thing you wanna
do is save your time.
And this architecture
did not save me time,
this architecture also
did not save me money.
I think it was like 500 dollars a month.
And again, I'm just like a balling on a
budget [LAUGH], don't have a lot of money.
We're taking it, put subscribers,
by the way, subscribe.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH].
But yeah, no, seriously this was entirely
not even considering the fact
of our budget concerns and
how many people were working on it and
stuff like that.
>> Erik: Even though it might
look really cool [LAUGH],
it depends on how valuable it actually is,
yeah.
>> Speaker 3: You may touch
on it in a minute here
but-
>> Erik: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: When building out something
like this, how do you determine how
much new I just wanna explore something,
things to get into?
>> Erik: Right, yeah, well,
this is a good example of that [LAUGH].
And we will talk about it
a little in a little bit, but
I think it's that's all about how
much value your time has, right?
It's really good to explore things
when you're at home chilling and
watching a stream or watching a YouTube or
something like that.
But I've even done this as well where
I've been like, yeah, don't worry,
we'll get it, we'll get it in a week.
But then I keep making it more complex,
keep digging myself into a hole and
then being like, yeah, this is why it's
not there, and then they're like, well,
why did you do this?
Exploration can be great, but
as some of our frontiers have also seen,
it can also hurt you.
So avoiding pitfalls, avoiding things
that are completely out of your term or
understanding might be good
things to kind of avoid,
at least if you're at your day job.
I personally think software engineering is
not just like a job, it's also a passion.
I think it's something you
wanna be very passionate about.
And kind of like doctors are constantly
reading medical books, we're constantly
looking at tech articles, we're constantly
seeing how people are doing things.
And so I think having a good guide to why
you're exploring can be really important.